as the corona virus pandemic brings life
across the country to a grinding halt
Americans are facing a new normal one
that may include losing their jobs
losing their income even losing their
health insurance to help us navigate
this let's bring in NBC News senior
business correspondent Stephanie ruhle
an NBC News investigative and consumer
correspondent Vicki Wynn Steph let's
start with you people have either lost
their income as a result of the pandemic
or on the verge of losing their income
what can they do file for unemployment I
know that we are watching the news every
day and we get different messages and it
sounds like people might be getting an
actual check from the government but we
also know that unemployment benefits
more and more people are asking for them
certain states are seeing more people
apply for unemployment in a day then
they see normally over weeks so people
need to go on their state's website make
sure you're going gov not calm because
you don't want to end up on a scam site
and immediately apply the government is
actually fast tracked people to receive
it because normally there's a decent
amount of lag time but right now the
government knows this is like a natural
disaster the president has said he
considers himself a wartime president
and that money people need it especially
if they're being asked to stay at home
to take care of their kids and they
don't have any income so apply for that
unemployment and hopefully it'll get
there soon and stuff I know a lot of
business owners I was a small business
owner at one point you think okay I just
bring them back to part-time I'm helping
them out a lot is that the best thing to
do not right now because what we're
being told from a medical perspective
and you know this better than I do it's
simply to shut down for a period of time
and I know it's hard because when you
run a small business it's like a family
you're a team but the sooner you can say
let's put these employees in a position
or maybe they can be getting government
support leave in that direction then you
know what when things are back up and
running when we're out from under this
cloud then you can bring those employees
back hopefully they'll be available I
hope so and I hope it's not as long as
it looks like it might be but Vicki
spring break is coming up and a lot of
folks are going to go vacationing and
they're gonna stay in Airbnb ease what
should they do well if that trip is
within the next 15 days I hate to be the
bearer of bad news but on Monday
president Trump
very clear he wants all Americans to
stay home and that means staying home
from spring break I don't want to tell
you and it's not fun but this is an
extraordinary time where we have to
accept a new normal and take
extraordinary steps now if your trip is
beyond that 15-day window things are
certainly still in flux the CDC has
certain guidelines and questions you
should be asking are you headed to an
area where corona virus is spreading
are you traveling in close contact with
other people are you yourself healthy
will you have a plan for what to do if
you get sick and then when you come back
who are you coming into contact with
those are all questions that the CDC is
asking people to consider before they
take any sort of non-discretionary trips
also can you take any time off when you
return what if you do get sick what's
the plan there the idea now is as you
know we need to slow the spread of this
virus so the sooner that we can do that
the sooner things can return to normal
if you have plans for an airbnb right
now Airbnb has just announced that they
have extended their policies for
extenuating circumstances so they are
allowing people to cancel without
penalty so if you're considering a
spring break trip you want to cancel
you're worried about losing your money
on an air B&B you can get it back and
something you brought up brought to mind
if you do go to a place that turns into
a hot spot especially if you're around
somebody that has kovat 19 the disease
you might end up getting quarantined for
14 days back here you may not be able to
go to war work so same thing you said
you need to be ready for that
exactly you've got to build that time
and is it worth the risk right now and
Steph Ford GM Chrysler they all
announced today that they're temporarily
closing factories because of this virus
what does that mean for their workers
you know that depends on which of the
big three you know that before we heard
this about the auto companies some of
the biggest companies out there who have
had to layoff or temporarily closed down
because they're not necessarily laying
off workers they're just closing down so
when we've seen that happen in stores
for example like the Apple Store they
were willing to pay those part-time
employees during this time now in the
auto industries case those are full-time
employees so we don't know the details
to that yet but what those what those
auto workers should do is talk to their
own HR department and see what they're
gonna do what their company is trying to
do with them and remember what you just
said you
you at one point you were a small
business owner these big big companies
are in a very different situation they
have a lot more slack and cushion or at
least they should to support their
employees during a stress time like this
it's one of the reasons a lot of people
are seeing pushback against the idea of
a bailout for the auto industry because
I wanna remind people that ninety six
percent of what's known as the free cash
flow the money that Airlines had on hand
over the last few years they didn't save
as a rainy day cushion they used it to
buy back shares you know who that serves
shareholders not the employees not their
end-user customers so at a time like
this is when companies want to have a
cushion so it's time to take care of
that employee right now they obviously
need it especially what's going on over
the next couple of weeks in couple
months but Vicky one of the other thing
that's going on out there are a lot of
consumer scams that are circulating
around what should people be on the
lookout for anything coming to their
email box or that's being shared on this
or their social media that's too good to
be true some key scams to be looking for
phishing emails these are the emails
that look like they're coming from an
official source maybe they look like
they're coming from the World Health
Organization or the CDC with some
information about the corona virus that
you haven't heard and they're urging you
to click on a link or download an
attachment never ever do that not only
could that be putting your personal
information at risk that could also put
you at risk for ransomware
where some bad software is being
downloaded onto your computer and then
freezing all of your files so be on the
lookout for those things also those
emails that seem like they're from
people that you know telling you
something that seems too good to be true
that you haven't heard like holding your
breath for 10 seconds and if you can do
that that means you don't have the
corona virus or drinking water every 15
minutes is going to help you avoid the
virus these are things that for whatever
reason are going around scammers are
using them to try to fish look for data
patterns don't fall for these things
always go to a trusted reputable news
source and if you are looking for
information go to that website go to the
CDC's website or the World Health
Organization or nbcnews.com go there
directly never click on links from
emails that you are not expecting the
other scams that are going around have
to do with cures we're seeing now fake
testing kits that are
circulated that are being sold
direct-to-consumer on online
marketplaces you cannot get a
coronavirus test direct-to-consumer
these are only being administered
through public health departments so if
someone wants you to pay them money for
a test and promises your results for the
coronavirus don't fall for that scam and
there is no cure for coronavirus bottom
line so don't fall for that any way
shape or form and Stefanie April 15th is
around the corner just a few weeks away
or tax is still gonna be due that day
taxes are due that day we know that this
has been a very stressed time for a lot
of people so you might want to apply for
an extension but remember even if you
plot apply for an extension that still
means you need to guesstimate how much
you owe and send that money in you don't
want to put yourself delayed because
that's when you can suddenly be
incurring late fees and penalties
Vickey right now people are worried
about jobs there are still some folks
hiring out there right who are they
yeah earlier in your show you talked
about Amazon but all the grocery chains
big ones
Albertsons Safeway Kroger not only
hiring but they're opening up new
positions
Kroger hired 2,000 people they have
10,000 more openings here's one you
might not be thinking about as you're
staying home for these 15 days maybe
you're looking over your resume
considering what what happens on the
other side of this IXL is an online
learning company a lot of those
companies now are opening new positions
for educators and people who can help in
that space because there's a lot of stay
at home school happening right now and
that's going to be happening for the
foreseeable future
so check into those online companies as
well as grocery stores if you want to
get back to work right now and Stephanie
summit I need to correct something I
made a mistake they have actually
delayed April 15th Americans now have an
extra 90 days to pay but remember if you
are ready to file
the sooner you file if you think you're
getting a refund the sooner you get it
back and if you file online rather than
on paper you're gonna get it even sooner
and you can still file an extension if
you need to correct absolutely now stick
with you for a little while longer if
things keep going on it looks like we're
in this for a long haul how quickly
could we expect that labor market to
start returning to normal to turn around
listen this is really really complicated
and we've got different numbers
different estimates
every day it was just a couple days ago
Treasury secretary Steve minuchin said
he didn't expect a recession at all and
now across the board more and more
people including the president are
saying we're facing a recession a global
recession something to think about
though we've heard a lot about this V
the president has said it some
economists have said it coronavirus is
causing the economy the markets to go
like this and as soon as we come out the
other side and the numbers go down it's
gonna shoot right back up like that like
a V but people should be more prepared
for the idea of a you and here's why
people change their behavior if we are
suddenly in lockdown and we're changing
our behavior over a couple of months
when we come out the other side we might
not be interested in exactly the same
things and think about it from a
business perspective it's suddenly
companies realize they don't need to be
spending that much on corporate travel
or events or conferences telecom for
telework might work a whole lot better
you're going to see companies change
corporate behavior and for the hotel for
the travel industry that's their biggest
ticket clients Corporate America you
could see that change you could even see
your personal behavior change you might
go to the movies every week once you
discover that you got Netflix or you
like you like playing board games or
puzzles you might not go back to that
movie theater so consumer companies are
starting to prepare for these changes
retailers especially Stephanie and
Vickie thank you so much for helping us
get through this maze of our financial
health which is important for just about
everybody so thank you very much for
helping us out here today yeah hey NBC
News viewers thanks for checking out our
youtube channel subscribe by clicking on
that button down here and click on any
of the videos over here to watch the
latest interviews show highlights and
digital exclusives thanks for watching